it's time to get raw nation it's time to
talk about furious death grind assault
from one of the bands that's legendary
in the genre one that has actually
considered to be a very pivotal piece in
the death grind puzzle we're talking
about global flatline the 2012 album
from aborted now aborted as a band that
throughout the past couple of albums
many people have said if kind of fallen
off a little bit not the say that they
are not a fantastic band any longer or
were a fantastic band any longer they
were still very very good but it just
seemed that the raw intensity that were
that was really captured on albums from
the first part of the 2000s didn't seem
to replicate itself on album such as
slaughter in apparatus and their
previous effort on prior to this one
however with global flatline they opted
to go back to an old friend Jacob Henson
who is the producer or was the producer
should I say for their magnum opus
Ghormeh gettin saw in the carnage done
the 2003 album that was inspired by the
needle and the damage done at least taha
with the title by Neil Young now this
not only happens to be one of my
favorite albums by aborted but also one
of my favorite albums in the entire
genre so this is encouraging to me and
upon like before I even started
listening to this album I immediately
had visions of greatness of what this
affair would be truly believing that
perhaps production had a lot to deal
with it was I right actually yeah kind
of what surprisingly enough global
flatline is just a torrid affair it's
something that just rips through you
it's a 15 track affair is a very very
lengthy track wise ideal but it clocks
it in only 51 minutes in length so you
can tell that the death grind persona is
still something that is infinitely
present amongst this band however the
sound just feels different this is a
bandit sounds a lot more refreshed than
they did on their previous two efforts
and it does resemble a little bit more
along the lines of the Gorman get an era
which means that this is a gentleman
that really seems to bring out that
sound in the band although many many
curious listeners may
they actually asked how is it all that
different than what they've really
output recently well there's a certain
raw gory just explicit the element to
that album that really has been unheard
of ever since that album the EP that
happened right after that and really in
my opinion the archaic abattoir which
was released directly afterwards global
flatline is an exercise and just raw
brutality it's an exercise in really
taking the idea of death grind and
really not only fusing it together but
also kind of opening it up almost like
some sort of demented gory flower I know
it's a terrible metaphor for a death
Bryan band but it's the best way to put
it mainly because whenever you think of
death grain you think of very quick
songs you think of very just brutal
vocals just ravaging ravaging guitar
works and just terrible blast beats well
you get that exercise here on global
flatline but at the same time you also
get different exercises in pace and pace
is what is able to craft an album in
being both brutal but at the same time
kind of haunting and very very
technically precise Corrigan was one
that was done principally is an exercise
in speed and ferocity and in just mental
destruction and that's something that
global flatline does boast however there
is a little bit more of a tendency to
bury the pace up a little bit on this
album which some people may not like
some people may actually think that that
is what resembles a little bit more of
their previous works the previous two
albums but I really think that this is a
good exercise that when working with the
gentleman that help them produce
arguably one of the best albums in the
death grinds on room really helped them
to really exercise this ideal with
tremendous precision and also kind of
indoctrinate a lhasa fee within them
that helped them create better stronger
music global flatline while it is going
to be kind of a lengthy affair to some
is definitely an album that's worthy of
investigation and is worthy of taking
the full 51 minute ride because this is
an exercise in brutality this is truly
an endeavor in just violence and
that's something that aborted is not
unknown for however this is one that is
done with a little bit more of a
concreteness a little bit more of an
engaging usage to this is something that
you can easily listen to free floating
ly without any necessity to jump around
there's no track on here that really
feels weak there the though there are a
couple that maybe feel a little bit more
along the lines of average as opposed to
above average this is an album that
actually for me signals a return to form
for aborted and really shows them as
still the reigning death grind gods and
every bit as viable and every bit as
important as they were back with the
release of Gorm again in 2003 and some
previous albums with that because even
with those albums where they were very
very rough and perhaps the band was
still getting a little bit more of a
death ii feel to them as opposed to
really exposing that grind philosophy
without them such as engineering the
dead you're feeling with a global
flatline and overall embodiment and that
overall embodiment is just meticulously
produced to create a nice hole and
whenever you have a nice hole like that
you actually get a pretty damn good
album this is an album that is not going
to be an exercise in tediousness instead
it's going to be an album that's going
to be an exercise and just how loud you
want to crank this up before you can't
take it anymore and my recommendation is
crank it up as loud as you want because
this is an album that's worthy of being
cranked up this is a solid 8.25 to an
8.5 out of 10 definitely worthy to your
collection and if you may be kind of
cool ruffled aborted throughout the past
couple of years throughout the past
couple of efforts perhaps ever since
slaughtered apparatus I'm methodical
over chore give them another trends give
them another opportunity because global
flatline is that exercise and brutality
that you have been waiting for and it's
here in 2012 cover killer nation so
definitely check this album out whenever
it's released on the twenty-fourth of
january and i will see you guys next
time i had to kill a fucking lot of
people to make this review so you better
be watching it too
King add